well
you love to start your day with a cup of
coffee
[Music]
but ants sure don't coffee greens
contain
dinner paints which are highly toxic for
ants
leave a couple of grains or some ground
coffee wherever ants might have access
to
if you already see a group of ants
feasting on some sugar in the kitchen
just leave a cup of coffee there so the
smell could kick them out
keeping all the jars close seems obvious
but when you accidentally see a nasty
ant
you probably don't realize it was your
fault that they came
ants love sugar since it has high
amounts of carbohydrates
next time you want to add sugar to your
tea make sure all the jars are tightly
closed
never leave any pastries cakes or pies
uncovered
all the sugar in the filling is magnetic
for ants
same goes for all kinds of fruit ants
are super addicted to it
because of fructose
salt seems even more attractive for ants
than sugar
they don't really have anything salty in
their regular diet
so they crave for any food that contains
some
so don't leave your salty snacks open
unless you feel like
sharing them with new friends
peppermint is known to repel insects
naturally
not only it repels ants it also keeps
fleas
caterpillars spiders and even lice away
if you like potted plants try growing
some peppermint
even though the smell isn't very obvious
for people
pests are scared of it
a sachet could be great too cut some
mint leaves and put them in a tiny
cotton sack
when they're dry the repellent effect
will still last
but it won't be hard to clean up the
mess
when there's no more smell add several
drops of mint essential oil
to prolong the effect by the way
the essential oil can be used alone
apply a few drops to
wherever the ants are coming
you can also make a diy anti-pest spray
you can be sure about the ingredients
this spray is going to contain
and there's no way you're going to be
allergic to it you
control all the ingredients
take three parts of water and one part
of mint
infusion or if you're not a fan of mint
replace it with
lemon water add 10 drops of essential
oil
mint orange lemon or grapefruit to make
it even stronger
you can spray it directly on the surface
just like any other anti-pest spray
or dab a cloth in the solution and swab
the cupboards
another thing ants can't stand is
cayenne pepper
you can use it in any number of ways
sprinkle some ground pepper
right on the problem spot or mix it with
water
about one tablespoon per ounce and spray
all over nasty pests
the ants will stay safe and sound but
they're not going to come back
after such a hot experience
you can replace cayenne pepper with some
black pepper
but make sure to add a bit more of it to
get the desired concentration
ants are awfully afraid of anything to
do with cinnamon
they hate it as a spice and they just
can't stand the cinnamon essential oil
the best places to apply the essential
oil is around the doors and windows
pay special attention to cracks ants
usually squeeze in through them
but no ant would want to come in if
there's cinnamon smell
cinnamon sticks on the windowsills are a
good deterrent too
plus they look cozy and smell nice
especially in the winter season
another solution is vinegar and water
solution
pardon the pun take one part of vinegar
and one part of water
you know what to do clean the cupboards
with this solution if you need
or you can spray it directly on the
pests if you're feeling lazy
but you'll have to clean that up anyways
if none of these mixtures help mix five
parts of water
one part of rubbing alcohol about 20
drops of peppermint oil
and about 10 drops of cinnamon oil
shake well before use because oils may
separate
this mixture can be used both indoors
and outdoors
the smell is great so it can also be
used as an
air freshener this one's not 100
natural but at least it's diy mix
equal parts of glass cleaner and some
liquid detergent
and wash the surfaces the ants have been
to
this mixture washes away the pheromone
trail they leave walking
if there's no smell the ants won't come
back
by the way your regular soap can do the
very same thing
and many soaps are 100 natural
the key thing is to get rid of the trail
the ants leave
another thing ants just can't stand is
tea tree oil
you can make either the spray or
saturate a couple of cotton pads
and leave them wherever ants like coming
just like diy traps
keep it away from your pets they won't
like the tea tree oil set either
eucalyptus essential oil can be a good
substitute if you don't have
tea tree oil for those who have no
essential oils at all try using boiling
water
if you notice an ant hole pour some
boiling water in there
but water alone is not enough to get rid
of the entire colony
if there are hundreds of ants and you
know that neither boiling water nor
essential oils can help
go and get some cornstarch pour a lot of
it
all over the colony and add water on top
as a result you'll get kind of a paste
ants can't get out
time to clean up the mess you can simply
pour a lot of cornstarch first
skip the water step and vacuum them up
quickly
in case you have no cornstarch try using
some flour instead
it can help a simple
chalk can turn out to be a lifesaver but
not for ants
just draw the line right in front of the
place where the ants are supposed to
enter your house
don't forget to refresh the chalk line
every couple of days
first off ants can't stand the calcium
carbonate the chalk's mostly made of
plus the chalk is said to interrupt the
notorious
trail they leave you're most likely to
have lemon essential oil at home
since lemon peels contain it strangely
ants dislike the cucumber peels too
they're pretty toxic to the fungi that
ants
love eating only real peels and
essential oils can help
most fragrances are synthetic so the
ants just ain't gonna buy it
still they're sure to fall for this
sweet trap
make some powdered sugar you remember
they got a sweet tooth
and baking soda while feasting on
powdered sugar
the ants just won't notice they'll also
be consuming
soda the consequences are irreversible
here just clean up that trap
not to deter the ants try preventative
measures
now don't grow bushes or trees too close
to your house
the leaves and branches shouldn't touch
the house itself
otherwise the ants can get inside
through tiny cracks
scrambling on those branches sometimes
ants are attracted to water
make sure you put a silica gel sachet
you find in a box of brand new shoes
in all the damp corners and places in
your house
silica gel absorbs extra moisture so
it will deter ants spiders some
caterpillars
wood lice and of course the mold
don't forget to check your pipes in case
there's some leaks
they might be attractive for ants
water can be a deterrent though build a
kind of
moat around your pet's bowl they won't
get to the bowl because there's a water
trap waiting for them
keep it fresh if you tried all but still
can't quite understand how come the ants
won't go away
go check your potted plants they may be
home for colonies of
ants to save both the house and the
plant
sprinkle some ground cinnamon right in
the soil
you can also put cinnamon stick directly
in the pot
as for plants there's one ants totally
hate so grow tansy if you're into
gardening
a couple of tansies before your front
door will act as security guards
no ant will ever let in dried tansy
flowers can be kept in sachet sacks
and stored around the house to deter the
notorious pests
make sure your fluffy pets can't reach
it it's quite toxic for them
got all that good